# yt Team Meeting 2016-02-02

 * NumFOCUS Fiscal Sponsorship Agreement
   * Are we doing this?
   * Yes we are!
   * If yes, what needs to be done?
   * Give name to leadership group (e.g., yt Project Steering Committee)
   * We will call this the Steering Committee
   * amend YTEP-1776
   * Britton will update the YTEP to change to just listing members of a steering committee.
   * New members will self-nominate by showing up to a yt team meeting and saying they want in.
   * New members: John Zuhone
   * FSA application signatories
   * TBA, we will see if we can get all 7 originals or maybe the whole steering committee.
 * Google Summer of Code
   * We will have a hangout soon with people interested in being mentors to brainstorm projects.  Nathan will organize this hangout.
 * External Packages
   * Website additions: governance page, page for extensions
   * Matt is going to propose some changes to the website.
   * We need some initial packages to be ready first before we do this.  Critical mass = 3 packages: Trident, SPHGR, Formulas, astroblend
   * Packages should have docs, be functional, have a blurb to go on the webpage, etc.  To be formalized...
 * yt 3.3 release
   * approximate timescale
   * Remaining obstacles: issues with new volume renderer.  Maybe another sprint (3-4 people for a couple days, says Nathan).  Andrew will triage the list of VR issues and organize a sprint.
   * Non-spatial still needs a lot of work.
   * More reviewers needed for PR #1904!
   * "2 months is doable." - Nathan Goldbaum
   * assign release manager - Andrew Myers
 * Recent source code developments
 * Paper
   * Timeline: unknown, but not until ADS adds updatable author list.
 * Other things
   * John and Jill are in CfA and are proposing to host a yt usersâ€™ workshop for Fall 2016.
   * Status on new logo: no update.
   * wikipedia page for yt? someone could do it if they like.
