# yt Team Meeting 2017-10-17

Meeting 2.

## Paper

yt-3.0 paper should be on the arxiv by February

## Frontends

Need people to commit to be frontend maintainers for some of the codes (on the
governance YTEP http://ytep.readthedocs.org/en/latest/YTEPs/YTEP-1776.html

 * OWLS  - ?
 * RAMSES - (Sam Geen? UNLV person?) 
 * Rockstar - Britton
 * Tipsy - Ben Keller?
 * Need to add Pyne - Pat Shriwise?
 * Add Cactus and frontend manager?

Matt will be splitting up the SPH frontend so Tipsy and Gadget are a bit more
separated.

Update on yt usage survey - Matt has a draft. Should hopefully be sent out
soonish.

https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1KOI0Ny2L22mve8mbb7UcoJEjdL_cctXrAVOK8uMA8kY/edit

We had an issue with the issue tracker yesterday - lots of emails got sent out
when we edited every issue. Consensus seems to be that we should be more
careful about coordinating with people who arenâ€™t at workshops.

Lots of cool stuff has been done at the workshop.  See the pull requests issued
during the workshop.

## Subcomponent updates

 * **Infrastructure**: No major updates.  Some new frontends are being worked
   on at the workshop.
 * **Testing**: We now run the cookbook recipes on each commit.  Plans are
   underway to move testing to a beefier machine which will allow us to spawn
   tests in parallel.
 * **Visualization**: symlog plotting PR, big VR update PR inprogress
 * **Documentation**: Stackoverflow questions.  Look into asking Stackoverflow
   people to add a tag. Create a gallery using images produced in the docs.
