We're proud to announce the release of yt version 1.7, an analysis and
visualization toolkit for Adaptive Mesh Refinement data.  (Just in
time for the Enzo Workshop!)  This release fixes a number of bugs, as
well as numerous improvements to the code base and the documentation.

Most prominently, it features "two-point functions" such as structure
and correlation functions, a re-engineered volume rendering interface,
multivariate volume rendering, off-axis projections, and a mechanism
for complex postscript plot layout.  Additionally, a major aspect of
the drive to 1.7 has been re-engineering the API documentation to be
better suited to interactive help (the "help(...)" call in python) as
well as the documentation website ( http://yt.enzotools.org/doc/ ).

Some of the changes since yt-1.6 (Released on January 22, 2010) include:

 * Direct writing of PNGs
 * Multi-band image writing
 * Parallel halo merger tree
 * Parallel structure function generator
 * Image pan and zoom object and display widget
 * Parallel volume rendering
 * Multivariate volume rendering, allowing for multiple forms of
emission and absorption
 * Added Camera interface to volume rendering
 * Off-axis projection
 * Stereo (toe-in) volume rendering
 * DualEPS extension for better EPS construction
 * Rewritten, memory conservative and speed-improved contour finding
algorithm
 * Speed improvements to volume rendering
 * Preliminary support for the Tiger code
 * Lightweight projection loading with projload
 * Improvements to yt.data_objects.time_series
 * Improvements to yt.extensions.EnzoSimulation
 * Speed improvements to basic HOP
 * Better docstrings and documentation

(The full changelog: http://yt.enzotools.org/doc/changelog.html )

yt features native support for Enzo
(http://lca.ucsd.edu/projects/enzo) data, providing a natural and
intuitive way to address physical regions in space as well as
processed data.

Installation instructions can be found here:
http://yt.enzotools.org/doc/installation.html .  If you are running an
older version of yt, re-obtaining and re-running the installation
script should happily upgrade your installation.  yt is a Free and
Open Source project, and we invite you to get involved. For more
information, join the yt-dev mailing list, or see the hacking
guidelines on the Wiki: http://yt.enzotools.org/wiki/HackingGuidelines
.  We anticipate a few more releases in the 1.7 series as
documentation and docstring coverage progress.

Sincerely,

The yt development team:

Matthew Turk
Stephen Skory
Britton Smith
John Wise
Jeff Oishi
Sam Skillman
Devin Silvia
David Collins
