Hi all,

We are pleased to announce the release of yt 2.6.  This is a major
release that includes new features and major updates along with all the
bugs identified and fixed since the release of 2.5.5 on August 28.  We
currently plan for this to be the final major release of the yt 2.X
release series, although bug fix releases will continue for the
foreseeable future.

Please forward this email to other interested parties.

Most notable changes include:

 * Relicensing whole project to BSD 3-clause
 * Automated absorption line fitting module developed by Hilary Egan
 * Significant improvement in documentation in a joint effort of the dev
team led by Cameron Hummels
 * Documentation now includes inlined IPython notebooks, thanks to
Nathan Goldbaum
 * RAMSES, ART, Tiger, Maestro and Castro frontends removal as their
counterparts in 3.0 branch exceeded them both performance and capability
wise.  All users of the aforementioned codes are strongly advised to
migrate to yt-3.0
 * Python stack update, which now features: ipython-1.1.0, hg-2.8,
python-2.7.6 numpy-1.7.1
 * New ProfilePlot and PhasePlot classes thanks to Britton Smith, Nathan
Goldbaum and Matt Turk. Previous mechanisms (i.e. profiles using
PlotCollection) are deprecated and will be removed in future versions.
 * Projections of the Sunyaev-Zeldovich effect using SZpack implemented
by John ZuHone
 * Generating Mock X-ray Photons now possible thanks to John ZuHone
 * Introduction of Transfer Function Helper by Sam Skillman
 * Initial support for installing yt with the package management system
Conda.
 * The addition of a frontend for the Pluto code by Andrew Myers
 * The addition of an OBJ exporter to enable transparent and
multi-surface exports of surfaces to Blender and Sketchfab by Jiill Naiman
 * yt can now export to RADMC3D thanks to Andrew Myers
 * Considerably (10x+) faster kD-tree building for volume rendering
thanks to Sam Skillman
 * Full integration and demonstration of all available colormaps
included in documentation thanks to Cameron Hummels

There have also been a number of minor bugs fixed in this release.  Some
highlights:

 * Center of the plot in off_axis_projection plots is now calculated
correctly, thanks to William Gray
 * Several enhancements to PlotWindow made by Nathan Goldbaum:
   - Save accepts paths to directories
   - Better handling of highly rectangular domains
   - Axes and colorbars are now toggleable
   - Nicer output in ipython notebook
   - eps_writer is now compatible with PlotWindow, thanks to John Wise
 * yt command line enhancements thanks to Devin Silvia and Matt Turk
 * Several enhancements to Athena frontend by John ZuHone
 * Improvements for OSX support (up to Mavericks)
 * Updates to halo finding routines by Britton Smith

Weâ€™d also like to recognize the new contributors to the yt 2.x source
code and documentation during the yt 2.5 development cycle:

 * Hilary Egan
 * John Forbes
 * William Gray
 * Stuart Mumford
 * Jill Naiman
 * Doug Rudd
 * Noel Scudder
 * Elizabeth Tasker

If you are using the stable branch of yt from an installation script,
you can upgrade using "yt update" or "yt update --all" to upgrade your
full dependency stack.  If you are using the development branch, you
may already have these fixes.  A tarball of this release has been
uploaded to the Python Package Index (PyPI).

Documentation for this release is available at:

http://yt-project.org/docs/2.6/

Previous announcements from the 2.5 release cycle can be found at:

2.5.5:
http://lists.spacepope.org/pipermail/yt-users-spacepope.org/2013-August/003929.html
2.5.4:
http://lists.spacepope.org/pipermail/yt-users-spacepope.org/2013-July/003716.html
2.5.3:
http://lists.spacepope.org/pipermail/yt-users-spacepope.org/2013-June/003669.html
2.5.2:
http://lists.spacepope.org/pipermail/yt-users-spacepope.org/2013-May/003595.html
2.5.1:
http://lists.spacepope.org/pipermail/yt-dev-spacepope.org/2013-March/002988.html

Thank you very much,

Kacper, on behalf of the yt development team
