# yt Team Meeting 2019-09-12

Meeting 11.

Notes by: Madicken Munk

Attendees:

 * Nathan Goldbaum
 * Ashley Kelly
 * Madicken Munk
 * Britton Smith
 * Stephanie Tonnesen
 * Matthew Turk
 * John Zuhone
 * Benjamin ?

## Agenda/Notes

1. Development updates
    1. yt-4.0 merge PR
        * Matt has been working on this lately.
        * Pretty sure all of the unit tests pass, but answer tests are not passing yet.
            * Major step is to get grid answer tests to pass
            * Wants to talk to Kacper about regenerating the image answer tests
            * Nathan: The images are stored in the test answer files, but they’re gzipped, but when the test fails the images get unzipped and dumped. 
            * Matt is happy to work on this but would like some help sanity checking things, especially on SPH data -- Britton is happy to help out.
    2. Pytest / answer testing
        1. Some of the above discussion is relevant to this topic
        2. The PR is open but not super full of information. Pytest offers some things that other tests frameworks don’t have
            * Jared Coughlin (postdoc at UIUC) has been working on it. He has also been rewriting the answer tests.
            * It will probably be ready to review soon
        3. Britton: how can anybody review such a large PR? 115 files have been changed and it is going to be hard to give useful feedback. 
            * Nathan: Can it be done piecemeal? 
            * Britton: I would need to know more about what that would involve
            * Madicken: what does it mean to be piecemeal? 
            * Kacper/Nathan: you can have nose and pytest running at the same time for a while (it might temporarily make the test configuration more complicated), as tests are converted they move from running with nose to running with pytest. Doing this would make it easier to review. 
            * Britton: as it stands right now it’s hard to review and we should wait to review until it is cleaned up.
    3. Paper
        * Matt is working on this and hopefully soon will have an e-mail about it
        * The paper is in the yt-3.0-paper repository (yt-project/yt-3.0-paper)
    4. Blockers for release of yt 4.0
        1. John: working on fixing why magnetic units are broken in 4.0 
            * Magnetic units are different in cgs vs mks (?) -- there are lots of issues with 10^4 differences (https://github.com/yt-project/yt/pull/2323)
        2. Ambiguous field access
            * If you pass a string of an ambiguous field type we want to update yt to throw a helpful error (e.g. if ‘density’ exists in multiple places)
            * There is no open PR for this right now
            * Matt: It is probably an API change so should be updated with 4.0 
            * Nathan: what if we generate a warning in 4.0 and raise an error in 4.1 or 4.2 because we haven’t had a release with a warning yet.  
            * Nathan: the warning can say what the fields that match are
            * Matt: I can take this on 
        3. We should have an open comment period with the community to decide what API changes are acceptable for our upcoming release. 

2. Long-term development
    1. Codebase revitalization
    2. Funded development
3. Governance docs
    1. Has anybody looked into this? 
        * Nathan: I haven’t looked too much at it yet
        * Britton: I think this represents a project that I would like to be a part of, but I don’t think it represents this project specifically 
        * N: What do you mean by that?
        * Britton: It’s too bureaucratic for a project this small. 
        * Next steps for Madicken:
            1. Add another team, the “yellow team” for people have newly contributed to the project but aren’t team members yet. 
            2. Add specific team roles, like the “mentorship czar” the “triage leader” and a role for the person who sends out doodle polls and schedules meetings.
                * ---ST votes for “mentorship shepherd” -- MM also really likes this name! 
            3. Remove lead/deputy roles from governance completely 
        * Next steps for other members:
            * Please review the section on requirements to merge PRs. These were added to be more specific, but Madicken would like feedback on whether they are reflective of our actual community values.
4. PR Triage, etc
    1. This is something that we were going to try to do, but haven’t followed through too much about it yet
    2. Matt: I committed to doing this before the semester started, but I’ll do it ASAP. 
    3. Stephanie: I can poke about this if it doesn’t happen
5. Workshops / sprints / etc - not discussed
6. Bonus item: do we need to meet more often than quarterly since we didn’t even get through all business?
    * General consensus is yes.
    * Action: Britton to try scheduling yt team meetings for once every 2 months.
