# yt Team Meeting 2015-09-22

Meeting 6.

 * Development process
   * We will make a development bookmark for main yt head
   * We leave other one called experimental
   * Nathan is writing docs for backport script and how to do a release
   * Nathan will update YTEP-1776 to reflect current workflow
 * Nathan’s de-linting work
   * Nathan is our hero
   * work is 2/3 done with mainly data objects left
   * in a couple weeks, testing to be turned on and feedback will be solicited
     (people should say if tests seem dumb)
 * Collaboration with astropy
   * we already do conversion between astropy units and our and we use astropy
     fits io
   * perhaps we should try to organize some workshops together
 * Python in Astronomy
   * people should go
   * someone should present on yt
 * Other things
   * the hub will come online soon
   * bay area mini-sprint in October (possible appearance of Sam)
   * Let’s do a user workshop (to be discussed at next team meeting)
 * Organizational structure
   * we should think about whether current system is fair and accurate
 * Logo
   * do we need a new logo? perhaps something that is vectorizable?
