# yt Team Meeting 2019-05-28

Meeting 10.

Notes by: Madicken Munk

Attendees:

 * Nathan Goldbaum
 * Cameron Hummels
 * Madicken Munk
 * Britton Smith
 * Stephanie Tonnesen
 * Matthew Turk
 * John Zuhone

## Agenda

 1. Can someone give me access to the yt-project account so I [Britton] can disable those obsolete yt team meeting reminders?
 2. Project Governance
    a. Creating a new governance YTEP
 3. Project Management
    a. Statements of our own time commitment to yt, i.e., how much each week can we give to project management (as a means of figuring out a total time budget).
    b. Staying up to date with dependencies
    c. Keeping up with PR review
 4. Major development updates
    a. Unyt PR into yt-4.0
    b. Merging yt-4.0 into master
 5. Development priorities
    a. Keeping up with ecosystem changes
    b. Optimization
    c. Project: Make Things Easier

## Notes

* This is our first yt team meeting in 2 years. We probably want to meet at a more regular time frame. Propose meeting quarterly.
* Who controls the google account? Britton will disable the old standing meetings. 
    * Action: Matt give Britton access to the standing event?
* Propose updating the project governance. 
    * [YTEP 1776](https://ytep.readthedocs.io/en/latest/YTEPs/YTEP-1776.html) is our original document. We need a group of people to look over the original document and propose revisions to send out to yt dev.
    * Nathan: worked on a template governance document w/ numFOCUS last year. We could add what’s missing to our ytep. Link to template: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FUgzTgPNFs8Dzobs5osut7qAizwXSMuX0t5Bb3m3vWg/edit#heading=h.d2nwsx5ow1v9
    * Madicken will take the lead on starting this process. In the next few weeks Madicken will send out a template
 * Project Management issues -- we’ve had some major changes with core devs moving to new positions. We need to come up with an updated management structure that involves distributed responsibilities.
    * Estimating time to dedicate to the project each week (this will be helpful to see if we have a disparity between the amount of work that gets done and the amount of work that we have available). This involves time to review PRs, triage PRs, solving issues, triaging issues.
        * Britton: 2 hours
        * Matt: 1 hour to a joint meeting, 1 hour separately. Also at Illinois we have a standing meeting where we’ve eben reviewing PRs and issues in a  small hangout with Kacper, Matt, Madicken, Jared and Sam.
        * Cameron: 1 hour a week
        * Madicken: Standing meeting @ illinois + 1 other hours per week.
        * Nathan: one thing that worked in the past is having a hangout to make more forward progress. Can’t commit to an hourly amount per week, but will answer if @’d in an issue.
    * We also want to make sure new contributors have an expectation that PRs will take about a week to be reviewed. That way they aren’t disappointed with about a week turnaround.
        * Propose updating the welcome bot to have text that mentions our triage meeting happens once per week so it’ll take time for review.
        * Stephanie: maybe we could also notify new contributors of when the triage meeting will occur and invite them so they can join in and participate in the review process.
        * Britton: where do we put these signs? What is the process that we want to follow to make sure new contributors are aware and have reasonable expectations of us.
        * Stephanie: this can help us with recruitment and retention also. If we invite newer contributors to these meetings then they’ll have a space where they can see how the development process goes in the yt project.
        * Britton: this will help us also have some responsibility to attend these meetings. We need to find a common time so no one person is the sole attendee.
 * Major development updates
     * Unyt PR into yt 4.0 branch
        * Summary of what’s in PRs:
            * Moves yt.units out of yt and use the unyt library instead. It’s almost completely done, but there is one blocker. If somebody tries to load an old unit registry unyt won’t be able to load it. We need to make sure this can be read with unyt. Solution: make a convenience method in yt that detects unyt registries and will use a slightly different method to read the units.
            * Unyt PR likely should be safe to merge separate from answer tests working. If it does introduce new issues Nathan promises to work on it.
            * John also is happy to help with these issues w/ Nathan.
        * Answer testing on 4.0 branch
            * Madicken: do we need to be running answer tests on yt 4.0 to make sure new features aren’t introducing issues as we merge them int 4.0?
            * Nathan: it depends on whether the 4.0 branch will be around for much longer. This will involve some work from Kacper, who is the only person who knows Jenkins well enough to set this up quickly.
        * SPH answer tests
            * John: this is ready to go. There are some issues that can be addressed in a separate PR.
            * Matt: we should merge this and can address subsequent issues as they come up.
        * Yt 4.0 branch into master
    * Development priorities
        * Keeping up w/ ecosystem changes: madicken e-mailed about this to yt-dev a while ago. Periodically we may want to be updating with new features that are in our dependencies.
            * Irregular meeting times are probably better for us. Maybe we can do this during development workshops.
            * Nathan: this might be a really good student project.
            * Nathan: Also it’s important to note that in the past when we’ve done this we have introduced bugs that took a while to detect. This might not be a good use of our (already limited) developer resources. Maybe we don’t want to touch this type of code unless we already have another reason to modify it.
 * Other items
        * Agenda and notes are going to a repo (project records) now.  We also need to send out what we’ve talked about to yt-dev.
        * Future meetings will be scheduled by britton. We’ll update as peoples’ schedules change, so keep your eyes peeled for Britton’s scheduling e-mail.
        * Let’s do the things!!!!