# yt Team Meeting 2020-01-28

Meeting 12

Notes by: Madicken Munk

Attendees:

 * Britton Smith
 * John ZuHone
 * Madicken Munk
 * Matt Turk
 * Stephanie Tonnesen

## Agenda

1. Governance document
   1. Any final comments?
   2. Can we merge it?
2. Development updates
   1. yt-4.0 merge PR (https://github.com/yt-project/yt/pull/2172)
   2. Pytest / answer testing (https://github.com/yt-project/yt/pull/2401)
   3. Paper
   4. Other PR discussions
      1. https://github.com/yt-project/yt/pull/2407
      2. https://github.com/yt-project/yt/pull/2429
      3. https://github.com/yt-project/yt/pull/2385
3. Workshops
   1. CCA in March
   2. Edinburgh in June/July
4. Ongoing community efforts
   1. PR triage (new time for 2020?)


## Notes

* The governance document has been merged!
   * TODO: Madicken resolve email for CoC resolution
   * Further comments are invited. New PRs can be issued to make alterations.
* Gsuite:
   * No reason *not* to, but no obvious and clear reason forward
   * John ZuHone notes that he already has multiple gmail accounts and has a manageable workflow
   * Matt says multiple accounts is biggest downside
* Development updates:
   * yt-4.0 merge PR (#2172):
      * Needs some poking!
      * Some suspected genuine test failures
      * Sooooooooo close…
      * https://travis-ci.org/yt-project/yt/builds/638645810?utm_source=github_status&utm_medium=notification
      * Answer tests need to be manually verified. Matt needs a helping hand with that.
      * Matt will coordinate this action.
   * Pytest effort:
      * Pytest infrastructure PR is open (#2401)
      * Some discussion of Py2 support and linking to https://ytep.readthedocs.io/en/master/YTEPs/YTEP-0033.html which is a bit unclear in whether calendar year, 3.6, or 4.0 are the drop dates.
      * Suggestion to drop Py2 support now.
      * Point is made about merging master&4 and the breakage with py2 there.
      * Roll a 3.6 release just before merging master and 4.  JZH, MM, BDS, MJT agree.
   * Order:
      * yt4 merge is ready
      * 3.6 happens
      * Then pytest stuff goes in, unencumbered by py2 complications
      * Britton is confident we can do this quickly, Madicken agrees
   * Paper:
      * Matt promises to once again redouble efforts on writing
      * Stephanie and Madicken (but not Britton) both offered to help with outlining, writing, accountability, etc
   * #2407
      * Madicken says that she and/or Kacper might be able to help with this by getting onto Fido
* Workshops:
   * CCA in March: 
      * it’s happening!
      * Website live, mainly aiming for locals
   * Edinburgh in June/July
      * Happening! More developments to come.
* Ongoing community efforts:
   * PR triage hangouts
      * Madicken will lead this and get it started in 2020.
