# yt Team Meeting 2014-09-15

Meeting 1.

Notes by: Britton Smith

We should update YTEP-1776 to codify adding [bugfix], [api break], or [new
functionality] to PR titles.

Has the governance discussion been a success?  Do we need to do more so that
people get credit for work?

 * People should add bios

## yt 3 paper

How should the yt-3 paper work?

 * Spread credit around by writing multiple papers
 * Write a single monolithic paper with “The yt collaboration” as the first
   author and alphabetical authors after that
 * Err on the side of monolithic papers, but allow for domain-specific papers
   under the yt umbrella

## Frontend liaisons

The frontend liaison table needs to be extended.

The following people should be approached:

 * Athena: Sam Skillman, Stephanie Tonneson
 * FLASH: John ZuHone
 * Gadget: Nathan Goldbaum
 * OWLS: Gabe Altay
 * RAMSES: Sam Geen?
 * Rockstar: Matt Turk
 * Tipsy: Ben Keller
 * Chombo (needs to be added to YTEP-1776): Andrew Myers

## Subcomponent updates

 * **Infrastructure**: Matt has been looking at forest of octrees and is
   optimistic about getting it working
 * **Docs**: Kacper recently fixed a couple of breakages in the docs build.
   Nathan fixed the issues with slow doc searches
 * **Plotting**: ParticlePlot is coming. Improvements for performance are
   incoming as well.
 * **Testing**: Adding a docker-based test suite, which will make it easier to
   test against different python versions and versions of python libraries.
   Also working on running the cookbook recipes as part of the test suite
 * **Analysis modules**: Porting the stellar spectrum generator.  Adding tests
   for more analysis modules.

## Releases

 * 3.1 is still not planned
 * Do we need release managers for minor point releases?
 * We should be sending out e-mails for minor point releases

## Workshop

 * W, Th, F week of October 15
 * Development focused
 * Matt wants to focus on Scaling to big datasets

## Funding

 * Matt got approval to transfer a grant over to NCSA from Columbia, which will
   fund 1-2 people.  Will hear soon about another grant, which could fund 2-3
   people over the course of 5 years. 
 * Also exploring possibilities to fund people to work on data repositories
   that are focused on yt.

## Usage survey and metrics

Need metrics for NSF grant, want to come up with a survey to send to people

## Next meeting

Hilary is coordinating.  Will happen at the NCSA workshop.
